# ponder example (okpc)

This is a simple ponder project using the lovely OKPC NFT contract as an example.

## Quickstart

1. Start the development server:

```
npm run dev
```

2. Point your frontend at the GraphQL API served from `http://localhost:42069/graphql`, or open that link to browse the schema.

3. Make changes to `ponder.config.js`, `schema.graphql`, or the `handler/` functions and the dev server will reindex automatically.

## Docs

### Project layout

#### 1. `ponder.config.js`

This file is analogous to the a subgraph's `subgraph.yaml` file. It contains contract addresses, paths to ABIs, and RPC URLs for each of your sources (contracts).

#### 2. `schema.graphql`

This file works exactly like a subgraph `schema.graphql`. It supports the `@entity` and `@derivedFrom("field")` directives.

#### 3. `handlers/`

This directory contains your contract event handlers. Ponder uses these functions to process blockchain events. Event handlers insert and update entities, which get served by the GraphQL API.

#### 4. `abis/`

This directory contains the ABIs for your contracts. You can download these files from Etherscan, or (more likely) generate them from a local smart contract development tool like Hardhat or Foundry.

#### 5. `generated/`

This gitignored directory stores autogenerated Typescript types for your handler files to import. It also contains the final schema that is served by the GraphQL API.

#### 6. `.ponder/`

This gitignored directory stores the log cache and the compiled handler code that the ponder uses to process lgos. You shouldn't need to worry about it, but if you delete it, ponder will need to refetch any cached logs from the RPC.
